Add SCDF scaling overview, manual scaling recipe and autoscaling recipe (#172)
spring-io/dataflow.spring.io: content/documentation/pages/6-recipes/7-scaling/2-autoscaling.md

---
path: 'recipes/scaling/autoscaling/'
title: 'Autoscaling'

> description: 'Implement SCDF autoscaling with Prometheus AlertManager and SCDF Scale API'

Reviewer: > Autoscale streaming data pipelines with SCDF and Prometheus

---

# Autoscaling with Prometheus, Alertmanager and SCDF Scale API

## Overview

> Autoscaling technique that extends the [Spring Cloud Data Flow Prometheus monitoring integration](http://localhost:8000/docs/2.4.0.SNAPSHOT/feature-guides/streams/monitoring/) to build an autoscaling controller for streaming data pipelines.

Reviewer: > In this section, we will walk through the autoscaling procedure by extending what SCDF already provides as integration with Prometheus.

> It leverages the [Prometheus Alert Rules](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/alerting_rules/) for defining `scale-out` and `scale-in` alerts based on pipeline metrics and actionates those alerts with [Prometheus AlertManager](https://prometheus.io/docs/alerting/alertmanager) and custom [webhook](https://github.com/prometheus/alertmanager), turning them into Data Flow Scale API calls.

Reviewer: No need of backticks for unimportant terms ..

> For a streaming data pipeline such as: `time | transform | log`, we will show how to use the delta of the streaming rates between the `time` and the `transform` applications to define scale alerts. When the so defined delta exceeds a certain threshold it fires a `scale-out` alert or a `scale-in` alert if the delta is none. This pseudocode illustrates the logic of such rules:

Reviewer: > For a streaming data pipeline:`time | transform | log`, we will show how to measure the throughput rates between the `time` and the `transform` applications, so we can use that as the deciding factor for alerts. When the defined threshold exceeds a certain limit, we will discuss how the autoscaling can be configured.

```basic
pipeline = time | transform | log

> delta-rate = rate(time) - rate(transform)

Reviewer: rename to "rateDifference"

> IF delta-rate > 500 for 1 minute THEN fire ThroughputDeltaHigh

Reviewer: Rename `ThroughputDeltaHigh` -> `HighThroughputDifference`

> IF delta-rate == 0 for 3 minutes THEN fire ZeroThroughputDelta

Reviewer: Rename `ZeroThroughputDelta ` -> `ZeroThroughputDifference`

```

Following diagram shows the high level architecture.

![SCDF autoscaling architecture](images/scdf-auto-scale-out-architecture.png)

> The alerting in Prometheus is separated into two parts: `Alert Rules` defined inside the Prometheus service and standalone `Alertmanager` service that receives and manages the alerts and in turn sends notification to external pre-registered webhooks.

Reviewer: > The alerting in Prometheus is separated into two parts: "Alert Rules" - defined inside the Prometheus service and a standalone "Alertmanager" - a service that receives and manages the alerts and that in turn sends a notification to a pre-registered webhook.

The [Alert Rules](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/alerting_rules/) are based on the Prometheus Expression Language (PQL).

> They are used to define the scale alerts send to the `Alertmanager`.

Reviewer: > They are used to define and send the scale alerts to `Alertmanager`.

For example the scale-out alert rule definition looks something like this:

```sql
alert: ThroughputDeltaHigh
expr:  avg(irate(spring_integration_send_seconds_count{application_name="time"}[1m])) by(stream_name) -
       avg(irate(spring_integration_send_seconds_count{application_name="transform"}[1m])) by(stream_name) > 500
for: 30s
```

<!--TIP-->

Check [alert.rule.yml]() (and [here]() for the kubectl installation) to see the used alert rules definitions.

<!--END_TIP-->

The [Alertmanager](https://prometheus.io/docs/alerting/alertmanager) is a standalone service that manages the alerts, including silencing, inhibition, aggregation and sending out notifications to pre-configured webhooks.

> Through the [config.yml](), the Alertmanager configures webhooks such as the `AlertWebHookApplication`.

Reviewer: >  [config.yml]() 

seems incomplete

Author: Indeed, because it depends on the https://github.com/spring-cloud/spring-cloud-dataflow-samples/pull/125 PR to be merged first, se we can reference the artifacts on github.

> The [AlertWebHookApplication]() is a custom webhook implementation build as a Spring Boot application. Configured as a [Alertmanager Webhook Receiver](https://github.com/prometheus/alertmanager) the `AlertWebHookApplication` listens for scale alerts and with the help of the SCDF Scale API scale out or in the relevant stream pipelines.

Reviewer: I guess all this will be filled once when the sample is merged. I get it.

Reviewer: > The [AlertWebHookApplication]() is a custom Spring Boot application. It is configured as a [Alertmanager Webhook Receiver](https://github.com/prometheus/alertmanager). The `AlertWebHookApplication` listens to the scale alerts and with the help of the SCDF's Scale API, the scale-out request is automatically triggered on the streaming data pipelines.

The `spring.cloud.dataflow.client.server-uri` property is used to configure the Data Flow Scale API endpoint.
For the AlertWebHook configurations check [alertwebhook-deployment.yaml]().

The `Data Flow Scale REST API` provides a platform agnostic mechanism for scaling pipeline applications and exposes the following REST interface:

```shell
POST /streams/deployments/scale/{streamName}/{appName}/instances/{count}
```

- `streamName` - stream pipeline name.
- `appName` - application name (in the stream pipeline) to scale.
- `count` - desired number of application instances.

## Prerequisite

> This recipe uses the Kubernetes platform and Kafka middleware.

Reviewer: Not a recipe anymore

- Then install the `Alertmanager` and the `AlertWebHook` and reconfigure the `Prometheus` services:

  ```shell
  kubectl create -f ./kubernetes/alertwebhook/
  kubectl create -f ./kubernetes/alertmanager/
  kubectl patch cm prometheus --patch "$(cat ./kubernetes/prometheus/prometheus-configmap.yaml)"
  kubectl delete pods -l app=prometheus
  ```

<!--For Helm installation-->

- Follow the [Helm](%currentPath%/installation/kubernetes/helm/) installation instructions to setup Spring Cloud Data Flow with Kafka broker. You can use `features.monitoring.enabled=true` with at least `10Gi` storage space:

  ```shell
  helm install --name my-release stable/spring-cloud-data-flow --set features.monitoring.enabled=true,kafka.enabled=true,rabbitmq.enabled=false,kafka.persistence.size=10Gi
  ```

- Then install the `Alertmanager` and the `AlertWebHook` and reconfigure the `Prometheus` services:

  ```shell
  kubectl create -f ./kubernetes/helm/alertwebhook/
  kubectl create -f ./kubernetes/alertmanager/
  kubectl patch cm my-release-prometheus-server --patch "$(cat ./kubernetes/helm/prometheus/prometheus-configmap.yaml)"
  ```

<!--END_TABS-->

> Install latest [kafka-docker](https://dataflow.spring.io/kafka-docker-latest) app starters:

Reviewer: Register ...

```shell
app import --uri https://dataflow.spring.io/kafka-docker-latest --force
```

## Autoscaling Recipe

### Create stream pipeline

```shell
stream create --name scaletest --definition "time --fixed-delay=995 --time-unit=MILLISECONDS | transform --expression=\"payload + '-' + T(java.lang.Math).exp(700)\" | log"
```

> The `time` source generates timestamp messages on fixed time intervals (~ 1 msg/s), the `transform` processor performs a math operation to simulates a CPU intensive processing and the `log` sink prints the message payload.

Reviewer: PLEASE use the same text that I put in change suggestion. Just copy-paste it here.

### Deploy pipeline with data partitioning

```shell
stream deploy --name scaletest --properties "app.time.producer.partitionKeyExpression=payload,app.transform.spring.cloud.stream.kafka.binder.autoAddPartitions=true,app.transform.spring.cloud.stream.kafka.binder.minPartitionCount=4"
```

The `producer.partitionKeyExpression=payload` property configures time’s output binding for partitioning. The partition key expression uses the message payload (e.g. the timestamp value) for computing the partitioned output channel.

> The `spring.cloud.stream.kafka.binder.autoAddPartitions` deployment property instructs the Kafka binder to create new partitions when required. This is required if the topic’s partition size has not been pre configured.

Reviewer: Please use the same text suggestion from review comments ^^

![SCDF autoscaling stream deploying](images/scdf-autoscaling-stream-deploying.png)

Once deployed with the help of the SCDF built in application Grafana dashboard to check the [stream application throughput metrics](%currentPath%/feature-guides/streams/monitoring/#prometheus-1):
![SCDF autoscaling initial metrics](images/scdf-autoscaling-initial-metrics.png)

The `time`, `transform` and `log` applications maintain the same message throughput (~ 1 message/s). The `transform` copes fine with the present load.

### Increase pipeline load

Now lets increase the load by increasing the `time source` rate. By changing time's `time-unit` property from `MILLISECONDS` to `MICROSECONDS` the input rate will increase from one to couple of thousands messages per seconds.
Note that the [stream update](%currentPath%/stream-developer-guides/continuous-delivery/) functionality allows to update the time application without stopping the entire stream stream:

```shell
stream update --name scaletest --properties "app.time.trigger.time-unit=MICROSECONDS"
```

The `time` apps is re-deployed with the new time-unit property:
![SCDF autoscaling increase load](images/scdf-autoscaling-increase-load.png)

> Now `time` emits messages with in a rate of `~ 5k` messages/s. The `transform` processor though is capped to around `1k msg/s` and in turn the capes throughput of the entire stream. Indicator that the `transform` has became a bottleneck.

Reviewer: Please use the same text suggestion from review comments ^^

       avg(irate(spring_integration_send_seconds_count{application_name="transform"}[1m])) by(stream_name) > 500
for: 30s
```

<!--TIP-->

Check [alert.rule.yml]() (and [here]() for the kubectl installation) to see the used alert rules definitions.

<!--END_TIP-->

The [Alertmanager](https://prometheus.io/docs/alerting/alertmanager) is a standalone service that manages the alerts, including silencing, inhibition, aggregation and sending out notifications to pre-configured webhooks.
Through the [config.yml](), the Alertmanager configures webhooks such as the `AlertWebHookApplication`.

The [AlertWebHookApplication]() is a custom Spring Boot application. It is configured as a [Alertmanager Webhook Receiver](https://github.com/prometheus/alertmanager). The `AlertWebHookApplication` listens to the scale alerts and with the help of the SCDF's Scale API, the scale-out request is automatically triggered on the streaming data pipelines.
The `spring.cloud.dataflow.client.server-uri` property is used to configure the Data Flow Scale API endpoint.
For the AlertWebHook configurations check [alertwebhook-deployment.yaml]().

> The `Data Flow Scale REST API` provides a platform agnostic mechanism for scaling pipeline applications and exposes the following REST interface:

Author: Not sure what you mean? 
At the moment we don't any reference explaining the SCDF Scale API  (even the reference docs is broken).  So we need at least one line to introduce it

> The `Data Flow Scale REST API` provides a platform agnostic mechanism for scaling pipeline applications and exposes the following REST interface:

Reviewer: It's sad that we didn't document it, but I added https://github.com/spring-cloud/spring-cloud-dataflow/issues/3705 earlier today to address the gap. Let's fix it at the core docs, and we can link it here. It'd be better not to describe it here explicitly.

```shell
POST /streams/deployments/scale/{streamName}/{appName}/instances/{count}
```

- `streamName` - stream pipeline name.
- `appName` - application name (in the stream pipeline) to scale.
- `count` - desired number of application instances.

## Prerequisite

> This recipe uses the Kubernetes platform and Kafka middleware.

Author: It might be better to give it a quick test with Rabbit instead and put a note that it also works with  Rabbit?

> This recipe uses the Kubernetes platform and Kafka middleware.

Reviewer: This PR is already too big. Better to remove this line from the guide altogether, and revisit this for Rabbit later.

The `spring.cloud.stream.kafka.binder.minPartitionCount` property sets the minimum number of partitions that the Kafka binder configures on the topic, which is where the transform-processor is subscribing for new data.

<!--TIP-->

When using RabbitMQ, the `app.log.spring.cloud.stream.kafka.binder.` deployment properties are not needed.

<!--END_TIP-->

![SCDF autoscaling stream deploying](images/scdf-autoscaling-stream-deploying.png)

Once deployed with the help of the SCDF built in application Grafana dashboard to check the [stream application throughput metrics](%currentPath%/feature-guides/streams/monitoring/#prometheus-1):
![SCDF autoscaling initial metrics](images/scdf-autoscaling-initial-metrics.png)

The `time`, `transform` and `log` applications maintain the same message throughput (~ 1 message/s). The `transform` copes fine with the present load.

### Increase pipeline load

Now, let's increase the load by increasing the time-source's message production rate. By changing time's `time-unit` property from `MILLISECONDS` to `MICROSECONDS` the input rate will increase from one to a couple of thousands of messages per second.

> Note that the [stream update](%currentPath%/stream-developer-guides/continuous-delivery/) functionality allows to update the time application without stopping the entire stream:

Author: They are identical?

> Note that the [stream update](%currentPath%/stream-developer-guides/continuous-delivery/) functionality allows to update the time application without stopping the entire stream:

Reviewer: There were too many changes and commentary, and back and forth, so it is likely that I misinterpreted it.

> Note that the [stream update](%currentPath%/stream-developer-guides/continuous-delivery/) functionality allows to update the time application without stopping the entire stream:

Reviewer: While reviewing the PR in entirety, I see "rolling-update" and a few other subtle changes are missing here. Let's compare to make sure the text changes are consistent wherever they are reused.

> Note that the [stream update](%currentPath%/stream-developer-guides/continuous-delivery/) functionality allows to update the time application without stopping the entire stream:

Author: Do you mean we should use "rolling-update" term when explaining the time update?

> Note that the [stream update](%currentPath%/stream-developer-guides/continuous-delivery/) functionality allows to update the time application without stopping the entire stream:

Reviewer: Correct .. its the same change I applied on the similar docs above. Because it is the same content, let's make sure they have identical use of terminology.

```sql
alert: HighThroughputDifference
expr:  avg(irate(spring_integration_send_seconds_count{application_name="time"}[1m])) by(stream_name) -
       avg(irate(spring_integration_send_seconds_count{application_name="transform"}[1m])) by(stream_name) > 500
for: 30s
```

<!--TIP-->

Check [alert.rule.yml](TODO) (and [here](TODO) for the kubectl installation) to see the used alert rules definitions.

<!--END_TIP-->

<!--TIP-->

The `spring_integration_send_seconds_count` metrics comes from the `spring integration` [micrometer support](https://docs.spring.io/spring-integration/docs/5.2.2.RELEASE/reference/html/system-management.html#micrometer-integration) and is used for computing the message rate.

<!--END_TIP-->

The [Alertmanager](https://prometheus.io/docs/alerting/alertmanager) is a standalone service that manages the alerts, including silencing, inhibition, aggregation and sending out notifications to pre-configured webhooks.

The [AlertWebHookApplication](TODO) is a custom Spring Boot application, registered as a [Alertmanager Webhook Receiver](https://prometheus.io/docs/alerting/configuration/#webhook_config) via the [config.yml](TODO).

> The `AlertWebHookApplication` receives the alert notifications (in JSON format) and with the help of SCDF's Scale API triggers the scale-out request to autoscale the given streaming data pipelines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `AlertWebHookApplication` receives the alert notifications (in JSON format) from Prometheus. With the help of SCDF's Scale API, it can then trigger the scale-out request to autoscale the given streaming data pipelines in SCDF.
```

Note that the [stream rolling-update](%currentPath%/stream-developer-guides/continuous-delivery/) functionality allows to rolling-update the time application without stopping the entire stream:

```shell
stream update --name scaletest --properties "app.time.trigger.time-unit=MICROSECONDS"
```

The `time` app is re-deployed with the new time-unit property:
![SCDF autoscaling increase load](images/scdf-autoscaling-increase-load.png)

Now `time` source emits messages with a rate of `~5000 msg/s`. The `transform` processor, though, is capped at around `1000 msg/s` and that in turn, it halts the throughput of the entire stream to a certain level. This is an indicator that the `transform` has become the bottleneck.

![SCDF autoscaling pipeline bottleneck](images/scdf-autoscaling-pipeline-bottleneck.png)

The `HighThroughputDifference` Prometheus alert rule detects the rate discrepancy and fires a scale-out alert:

![SCDF autoscaling scaleout alert](images/scdf-autoscaling-scaleout-alert.png)

in result 3 additional transform instances are added:

![SCDF autoscaling adding 3 instances](images/scdf-autoscaling-adding-3-instances.png)

> with the help of the additional instance the `log` sink and the entire pipeline catch up match with the `time` source:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with the help of the additional instances of the `log` sink the entire data pipeline catches up to match with the `time` source's production rate:
```

Reviewer: Or, otherwise, use the same text from previous similar section

![SCDF autoscaling stream catches up](images/scdf-autoscaling-stream-catchup.png)

### Reduce pipeline load

If we reduce the source's data production rate back to the original rate (i.e., `1 msg/s`):

```shell
stream update --name scaletest --properties "app.time.trigger.time-unit=MILLISECONDS"
```

> then the extra `transform` processor instances aren't altering the overall throughput rate anymore.

Reviewer: The extra

> Eventually the rate difference becomes zero and the `ZeroThroughputDifference` alert is fired. Later in turn triggers a scale-in action and the extra instances can be scaled back in:

Reviewer: We could minimize the use of "Later" wherever possible. Maybe you're referring to "latter", but it is still a bit hard to grok when used in the sentence.

Author: yeh, i mean latter indeed.  But replaced it with `The alert in turn ...`

![SCDF autoscaling scale-in alert](images/scdf-autoscaling-scale-in-alert.png)

> With a single `transform` instance the throughput of the entire pipeline is normalized back to `~1 msg/s` :

Reviewer: data pipeline

---
path: 'recipes/scaling/autoscaling/'
title: 'Autoscaling'

> description: 'Autoscale streaming data pipelines with SCDF and Prometheus'

Reviewer: pipeline

---

# Autoscaling with Prometheus, Alertmanager and SCDF Scale API

To learn about the basic scaling concepts in Spring Cloud Data Flow, please consult the [Scaling](%currentPath%/feature-guides/streams/scaling/) guide.

## Overview

> In this section, we will walk through the autoscaling procedure by extending what SCDF already provides as [integration with Prometheus](http://localhost:8000/docs/2.4.0.SNAPSHOT/feature-guides/streams/monitoring/).

Reviewer: > In this section, we will walk through the autoscaling procedure by extending on top of what SCDF already provides as [integration with Prometheus](http://localhost:8000/docs/2.4.0.SNAPSHOT/feature-guides/streams/monitoring/) for monitoring.

> It leverages the [Prometheus Alert Rules](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/alerting_rules/) for defining scale-out and scale-in alerts based on pipeline metrics and actionates those alerts with [Prometheus AlertManager](https://prometheus.io/docs/alerting/alertmanager) and custom [webhook](https://github.com/prometheus/alertmanager), turning them into Data Flow Scale API calls.

Reviewer: The solution leverages ...

Reviewer: > The solution leverages the [Prometheus Alert Rules](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/alerting_rules/) for defining scale-out and scale-in alerts based on application throughput metrics. The alerts are managed by the [Prometheus AlertManager](https://prometheus.io/docs/alerting/alertmanager) and a custom [webhook](https://github.com/prometheus/alertmanager), which in turn triggers the Scale API calls in SCDF.

> For a streaming data pipeline:`time | transform | log`, we will show how to measure the throughput rates between the `time` and the `transform` applications, so we can use that as the deciding factor for alerts. When the defined threshold exceeds the defined limit, we will discuss how to alert and likewise autoscale the streaming data pipeline. Following pseudocode illustrates the logic of such alert rules:

Reviewer: > When the defined threshold exceeds the set rules, we will discuss how the alerts are triggered and likewise the autoscale calls are triggered. Following pseudocode illustrates the logic of such alert rules:

```java
rateDifference = rate(time) - rate(transform)                         // <1>
if rateDifference > 500 for 1 minute do fire HighThroughputDifference // <2>
if rateDifference == 0 for 3 minutes do fire ZeroThroughputDifference // <3>
```

- <1> Prometheus' query expression that computes, in real-time, the throughput (e.g. rate) difference between the `time` and `transform` applications.
- <2> Defines a `HighThroughputDifference` alert rule that fires when the rate difference exceed `500 msg/s` for the duration of `1 min`.
- <3> Defines a `ZeroThroughputDifference` alert rule that fires if the rate difference stays `0 msg/s` for at least `3 min`.

Following diagram shows the high level architecture.

![SCDF autoscaling architecture](images/scdf-auto-scale-out-architecture.png)

> The [Data Flow metrics architecture](%currentPath%/concepts/monitoring/) is designed around the Micrometer library and provides an out of the box Prometheus support. Later collects various application metrics for performance analysis and allows alert configuration.

Reviewer: > The [Data Flow metrics architecture](%currentPath%/concepts/monitoring/) is designed with the help of the Micrometer library. Prometheus can be one of the monitoring backends that can collect various application metrics for performance analysis, and it allows for alert configurations, as well.

The alerting in Prometheus is divided into two parts:

> - Alert Rules - defined inside the Prometheus service and a standalone

Reviewer: seems incomplete ..

### Deploy pipeline with data partitioning

```shell
stream deploy --name scaletest --properties "app.time.producer.partitionKeyExpression=payload,app.transform.spring.cloud.stream.kafka.binder.autoAddPartitions=true,app.transform.spring.cloud.stream.kafka.binder.minPartitionCount=4"
```

The `producer.partitionKeyExpression=payload` property configures time’s output binding for partitioning. The partition key expression uses the message payload (e.g. the toString() value of the current timestamp) to compute how the data needs to be partitioned to the downstream output channels.
The `spring.cloud.stream.kafka.binder.autoAddPartitions` deployment property instructs the Kafka binder to create new partitions when required. This is required if the topic is not already over-partitioned.
The `spring.cloud.stream.kafka.binder.minPartitionCount` property sets the minimum number of partitions that the Kafka binder configures on the topic, which is where the transform-processor is subscribing for new data.

<!--TIP-->

> When using RabbitMQ, the `app.log.spring.cloud.stream.kafka.binder.` deployment properties are not required.

Reviewer: can be removed

![SCDF autoscaling stream deploying](images/scdf-autoscaling-stream-deploying.png)

With the help of the SCDF built-in Grafana application dashboard check the [applications throughput metrics](%currentPath%/feature-guides/streams/monitoring/#prometheus-1):
![SCDF autoscaling initial metrics](images/scdf-autoscaling-initial-metrics.png)

The `time`, `transform` and `log` applications maintain the same message throughput (~ 1 msg/s). The `transform` copes fine with the present load.

### Increase pipeline load

Now, let's increase the load by increasing the time-source's message production rate. By changing time's `time-unit` property from `MILLISECONDS` to `MICROSECONDS` the input rate will increase from one to a couple of thousands of messages per second.
Note that the [stream update](%currentPath%/stream-developer-guides/continuous-delivery/) functionality allows to update the time application without stopping the entire stream:

```shell
stream update --name scaletest --properties "app.time.trigger.time-unit=MICROSECONDS"
```

The `time` app is re-deployed with the new time-unit property:
![SCDF autoscaling increase load](images/scdf-autoscaling-increase-load.png)

> Now `time` source emits messages with a rate of `~5000 msg/s`. The `transform` processor though is capped at around `1000 msg/s` and that in turn, it halts the throughput of the entire stream to a certain level. This is an Indicator that the `transform` has become a bottleneck.

Reviewer: I left some more text edits in the previous similar section ..

![SCDF autoscaling pipeline bottleneck](images/scdf-autoscaling-pipeline-bottleneck.png)

The `HighThroughputDifference` Prometheus alert rule detects the rate discrepancy and fires a scale-out alert:

![SCDF autoscaling scaleout alert](images/scdf-autoscaling-scaleout-alert.png)

in result 3 additional transform instances are added:

![SCDF autoscaling adding 3 instances](images/scdf-autoscaling-adding-3-instances.png)

with the help of the additional instance the `log` sink and the entire pipeline catch up match with the `time` source:

![SCDF autoscaling stream catches up](images/scdf-autoscaling-stream-catchup.png)

### Reduce pipeline load

If we reduce the input load back to the original rate 1 msg/s):

```shell
stream update --name scaletest --properties "app.time.trigger.time-unit=MILLISECONDS"
```

> the multiple `transform` instances gradually become redundant which triggers the `ZeroThroughputDifference` alert is fired:

Reviewer: I left some more text edits in the previous similar section ..

![SCDF autoscaling scale-in alert](images/scdf-autoscaling-scale-in-alert.png)

> later triggers the scale-in actions and removes the extra `transform` instance, while the throughput of the entire pipeline is normalized to `~1 msg/s` :

Reviewer: > With the previous command, the scale-in action removes the extra `transform` instances, and the throughput of the entire pipeline is normalized back to `~1 msg/s` :

Author: imo, above sentence is misleading as for autoscaling we do not trigger scale actions explicitly but let the system do it eventually.  
Please check how i changed the last two paragraphs.
